We'll do a quick coding demo and answer
questions and we will then go from there.
So the question is how can we identify a
presentation component versus a container
component?
There's a few ways to do that.
One, a presentation component and
I'm gonna build one in just a moment.
It's going to be very
close to inside of it.
It's gonna be mainly just bindings and
so a presentation
components should have zero or
very little logic inside of it.
It container component is going to be
a much kind of a larger component and
it's going to consume data and
essentially direct commands or
function calls out of that component.
But then inside of it in
the container component is
just gonna hold other components.
So with that in mind let me build
let me build out few components and
we can see what this looks like.
So, from the command line,
I'm going to generate a component.
And I'm going to call this courses-list.
Let me just double check that.
This is going to work and
because I have an extra module in my route
I'm going to go -m app.module.ts.
There we go, so,
we have a courses component but
I'm also adding in a courses-list.
And then from here I'm going
to add in a course, details
All right so
now I've generated two components.
And we have courses-list, courses details.
And if we look at
the courses component HTML.
Currently, you'll notice that
it just has everything in here.
Like there's no semblance like
it's just doing everything.
It has the list and it has the details.
And what we want to do is we
want to start to break this up.
So within our courses component.
I am going to take this courses-list and
I'm just going to go to
the list component here.
And within the HTML I am
going to paste this in.
And what I am going to do just for
a moment just so
we can see this is I'm going to.
Just create a quick placeholder for this.
I'm gonna save this and we're going to.
Save this,
hopefully let me just double-check.
I believe that this should
be app courses-list.
And so if we go back into our
application here we can see that we have
the courses-list.
And let me do the same thing
with the details component.
So I'm going to go here I'm just
going to chop this out cut and
here Just going to paste this in.
And then we'll go back here and
we're going to app, course, details.
And I'm going to save this here.
Now what's going to happen is
that this is obviously not going
to work because we've moved
some stuff around and
it doesn't know where
to find certain things.
So, I'm going to comment out
the course details for just a moment.
And we're going to focus
on the courses-list.
Now, I'm going to uncomment this,
All right, what we have here is two kind
of things that are happening or
three things.
So, we are rendering courses but
then we have a select course and
a delete course.
So let me go into the courses-list
component and I'm going to just
delete all this stuff because we don't
need a constructor or selectorial.
So, I need to generate I
need to define an input.
And it's going to be courses.
And this is just gonna
be an array of courses.
And for now we're just going to
initialize this as an empty array.
Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to
do an output and we will do selected and
this is going to equal
a new event emitter.
Now, what you have to catch
here is notice that there
are a few versions of event emitter here.
And if you import the wrong one,
it's not going to work.
And so I have ran into that
problem a few times, so
we're gonna go selected and deleted.
All right, so far so good.
Now what I can do is we can go
back to the courses-list and,
We can do deleted omit.
And selected by emit
in theory I thought
I'm just going to
comment this as well.
I just would like this to render
why we're building so, all right,
not a lot happening, but
at least it's not broken.
So now, notice I am passing in courses so
I can render it, but
then I need to respond to events.
One is when I select a course or
I want to delete a course.
Now if I go back to our
courses component HTML,
what I can do is I can
define courses as in input,
and I'm going to pass in courses.
Now, unfortunately, because I've
turned off angular language services,
I'm not getting the prompts that I
would like, but I can live with that.
So if I go here selected,
it can be selectCourse.
And I'm going to use this
event parameter here.
And we'll also do deleted and
then this will be delete course.
We'll just double check.
So, we go into our component
we have selectCourse and
deleteCourse, okay.
So let's go back and
you'll see here that although
my layout is a little wonky
that we are indeed and I think.
All right, well, I'm not tracing
anything out, but this is rendering.
So now, let's go ahead and let's build
out the courses detail component.
So, what I'm gonna do here is.
I'm going to uncheck this and
I'm going to update this to.
Current course.
Now what I'm going to do
inside of the template.
I'm going to, add in an input and
we're going to allow for course.
And this is gonna be of type course.
And we're going to go output.
We're going to create two
outputs saved equals new event.
Emitter and cancel equals
new event emitter.
All right and
we are not implementing on emit and
so I'm going to save this and
then we're going to go back
into our component here.
And we're going to add the sense so now.
Course equal selectedcourse.
And,
Canceled=reset, and saved.
=saveCourse, and
this is going to take a dollar sign.
All right.
This should work minus one thing you'll
notice here that I have current course.
So I'm going to just for
a moment going to update this.
To be currentCourse.
All right,
just a couple things real quick.
So let's go into course details,
and we will,
currentCourse.title and
we go saved.emit and,
What did I call,
Canceled.
And inside of my template,
cancel, all right.
Right.
Notice that I change the input and so
that kind of threw things off hopefully.
All right, here we go.
There we go.
So you can see here.
Now as I select this,
although I'm a little bummed out that this
layout is totally messed up,
let me see if I fix this real quick.
I got a good feeling about this.
And I'm just gonna wager that,
I probably need to do the same thing for
the list,
of courses-list, if I'm not mistaken.
And then we are in
the homestretch of this.
Let me check in courses-list.
There we go, boom,
just fixing this layout.
There we go.
Let me save this and, All right, awesome.
So now,
New course, but we have a small problem.
Hello, so we need to update this or
one break this, but also one of
the things that we are doing.
That we want to be really careful
about is in our selectCourse.
What I'm going to do is, I am not going
to create a clone at the parent level.
But rather we are going to move
that into the child component.
So I'm going to get rid of that.
And let's go back here.
So now if I start modifying this you can
see it happens in more than one place.